# 🌐 org_global.nac.yaml File

No templates are created at the organization level within Unified Branch - Branch as Code.  Therefore, the ***org_global.nac.yaml*** file in the `data/` folder defines no templates.  Since templates are not implemented at the organization level, template variables are also not used.  Instead values are hardcoded.  Change these values to meet the requirements of your deployment. 

Due to the length of the YAML configuration within the ***org_global.nac.yaml*** file, the following comments are separated based on the sections of the file.


## 🔍 login_security Section

The **login_security** section hardcodes the following settings.  Change them as appropriate for your deployment.

- **enforce_password_expiration** is a boolean indicating whether users are forced to change their password every X number of days. It is hardcoded to "false" in the file. 
  
- **password_expiration_days** is the number of days after which users will be forced to change their password.  It is hardcoded to "40" in the file. 

- **enforce_different_passwords** is a boolean indicating whether users, when setting a new password, are forced to choose a new password that is different from any past passwords.  It is hardcoded to "true" in the file. 
  
- **num_different_passwords** is the number of recent passwords that new password must be distinct from.  It is hardcoded to "3" in the file.
  
- **enforce_strong_passwords** is a boolean indicating whether users will be forced to choose strong passwords for their accounts. Strong passwords are at least 8 characters that contain 3 of the following: number, uppercase letter, lowercase letter, and symbol.  It is hardcoded to "true" in the file. 

- **enforce_account_lockout** is a boolean indicating whether users' Dashboard accounts will be locked out after a specified number of consecutive failed login attempts.  It is hardcoded to "true" in the file.
  
- **account_lockout_attempts** is the number of consecutive failed login attempts after which users' accounts will be locked.  It is hardcoded to "3" in the file.
  
- **enforce_idle_timeout** is a boolean indicating whether users will be logged out after being idle for the specified number of minutes.  It is hardcoded to "true" in the file.
  
- **idle_timeout_minutes** is the number of minutes users can remain idle before being logged out of their accounts.  It is hardcoded to "90" in the file.
  
- **enforce_two_factor_auth** is a boolean indicating whether users in this organization will be required to use an extra verification code when logging in to Dashboard. This code will be sent to their mobile phone via SMS, or can be generated by the authenticator application.  It is hardcoded to "false" in the file.
  
- **enforce_login_ip_ranges** is a boolean indicating whether organization will restrict access to Dashboard (including the API) from certain IP addresses.  It is hardcoded to "false" in the file.
  
- **login_ip_ranges** is a list of acceptable IP ranges. Entries can be single IP addresses, IP address ranges, and CIDR subnets.  It is hardcoded to an empty list ([]) in the file. 


## 🔍 policy_objects Section

The configuration within the **policy_objects** section creates 11 policy objects as follows:

- **Data Subnet** corresponds to the IP address range of VLAN 10 (Data) across all branches within the Unified Branch CVD.  This is hardcoded to a value of "10.10.0.0/16" in the file.  Change this to the IP address range representing the Data VLANs within your deployment.  

- **Corp RADIUS** corresponds to the IP address of the external RADIUS server used for wired and wireless authentication and authorization within the Unified Branch CVD.  This is hardcoded to a value of "10.102.1.157" in the file.  Change this to the IP address representing the RADIUS server within your deployment. 

- **Corp DNS-DHCP** corresponds to the IP address of the DNS and DHCP server used for VLANs 10 (Data), 20 (Voice), 30 (IoT), and 40 (PCS) within the Unified Branch CVD. This is hardcoded to a value of "10.102.1.160" in the file. These VLANs make use of centralized DHCP services via DHCP relay functionality configured on the secure router. Change this to the IP address representing the centralized DHCP and DNS server within your deployment. 

- **Corp Mgt** corresponds to the IP address of a centralized management server located within the hub sites within the Unified Branch CVD.  This is hardcoded to a value of "10.102.1.160" in the file.  Change this to the IP address representing the centralized management server within your deployment. 

- **Corp SNMP** corresponds to the IP address of a centralized SNMP server located within the hub sites within the Unified Branch CVD.  This is hardcoded to a value of "10.102.1.161" in the file.  Change this to the IP address representing the centralized SNMP server within your deployment. 

- **Voice Subnet** corresponds to the IP subnet range of VLAN 20 (Voice) across all branches within the Unified Branch CVD.    This is hardcoded to a value of "10.20.0.0/16" in the file.  Change this to the IP address range representing the Voice VLANs within your deployment.

- **INFRA Subnet** corresponds to the IP subnet range of VLAN 999 (Infra) across all branches within the Unified Branch CVD.   This is hardcoded to a value of "10.250.0.0/16" in the file.  Change this to the IP address range representing the Infra VLANs within your deployment.

- **IoT Subnet** corresponds to the IP subnet range of VLAN 30 (IoT) across all branches within the Unified Branch CVD.  This is hardcoded to a value of "10.30.0.0/16" in the file.  Change this to the IP address range representing the IoT VLANs within your deployment.

- **PCI Subnet** corresponds to the IP subnet range of VLAN 40 (PCI) across all branches within the Unified Branch CVD.  This is hardcoded to a value of "10.40.0.0/16" in the file.  Change this to the IP address range representing the IoT VLANs within your deployment.

- **Branch 1 Printer 1** corresponds to the IP address of the first printer located in the shared services / IoT VLAN in a branch within the Unified Branch CVD.  This is hardcoded to a value of "10.30.1.101" in the file.  This represents the first shared printer in the the branch in which the IoT VLAN is "10.30.1.0/24". Change this to the IP address representing the first shared printer in your deployment.  Add additional printers for other branches as needed. 

- **Branch 2 Printer 2** corresponds to the IP address of the second printer located in the shared services / IoT VLAN in a branch within the Unified Branch CVD.  This is hardcoded to a value of "10.30.1.102" in the file.  This represents the second shared printer in the the branch in which the IoT VLAN is "10.30.1.0/24". Change this to the IP address representing the second shared printer in your deployment.  Add additional printers for other branches as needed. 
  
- **Default Subnet** corresponds to the IP subnet range of VLAN 1 (Default) across all branches within the Unified Branch CVD.  This is the default value of "192.168.128.0/24".

- **Guest Subnet** corresponds to the IP subnet range of VLAN 50 (Guest) across all branches within the Unified Branch CVD.  This is hardcoded to a value of "172.16.99.0/24" in the file.  Change this to the IP address range representing the Guest VLANs within your deployment.

The policy objects and associated policy groups sections are currently not used for Unified Branch Phase 2.  These policy objects and their associated policy groups are provided as an example of the use of policy objects and policy object groups within the firewall policy of the secure router of the Unified Branch design, matching the configuration and IP addressing shown within the Unified Branch CVDs.   


## 🔍 policy_objects_group Section

The configuration within the **policy_objects_group** section creates two policy object groups as follows:

- **Branch 1 Printers** contains two policy objects - **Branch 1 Printer 1**, and **Branch 1 Printer 2** corresponding to printers with specific IP addresses located on the IoT VLAN of the Unified Branch design, based on the Unified Branch CVD. These were discussed in the section above.

- **Corp Shared Services** contains four policy objects - **Corp RADIUS**, **Corp DNS-DHCP**, **Corp Mgt**, and **Corp SNMP** corresponding to IP addresses of servers which provide their respective functions, located within the hub location of the Unified Branch design, based on the Unified Branch CVD.  These were discussed in the section above.

The **policy_objects_groups** section is provided as an example of the use of policy objects and policy object groups within the firewall policy of the secure router of the Unified Branch design, matching the configuration and IP addressing shown within the Unified Branch CVDs. Modify the configuration as necessary to meet the requirements of your deployment before deploying.


## 🔍 adaptive_policy Section

The **adaptive_policy** section creates the following four Adaptive Policy Groups and assigns SGTs for each group:  

- Finance_User_Group (SGT 10)
- Finance_Server_Group (SGT 100)
- Marketing_User_Group (SGT 20)
- Marketing_Server_Group (SGT 200)

In addition the Meraki platform automatically creates the following built-in Adaptive Policy Groups:

- Unknown (SGT 0)
- Infrastructure (SGT 2)

The **adaptive_policy** section then creates the following bi-directional policies:

- Allows Finance Users to Finance Servers
- Allows Marketing Users to Marketing Servers
- Denies Finance Users to Marketing Servers
- Denies Marketing Users to Finance Servers
- Allows Finance Users to Marketing Users
- Allows Finance Users to Unknown
- Allows Marketing Users to Unknown
- Allows Finance Servers to Unknown
- Allows Marketing Servers to Unknown
- Allows Finance Users to Infrastructure
- Allows Marketing Users to Infrastructure
- Allows Finance Servers to Infrastructure
- Allows Marketing Servers to Infrastructure

Please refer to the following URL for the full data model for configuring [Adaptive Policy](https://netascode.cisco.com/docs/data_models/meraki/organizations/adaptive_policy/).

Add the name of the network created within the **pods_variables.nac.yaml** file to the list of networks under the **settings_enabled_networks** parameter to enable Adaptive Policy for the network.


## 🔍 Third Party VPN Peers Section

This section defines the **third_party_vpn_peers** for integration to Cisco Secure Access. The configuration defines peers for the primary and secondary data centers for Cisco Secure Access.

The primary and secondary peers are defined using custom IPsec policies matching the values within the "Umbrella" dashboard preset values.  The "umbrella" preset policy within the Terraform Provider corresponds to the "Umbrella (Deprecated) preset policy within the Meraki Dashboard. There is currently no preset policy value within the Terraform Provider that conforms to the settings within the Meraki Dashboard preset policy of "Umbrella". Therefore, for Unified Branch Phase 2, a custom policy is used to match the settings.

Note that for Phase 2 of Unified Branch, Cisco Secure Access / SSE is only supported for greenfied deployments - meaning there should be no other pre-existing third-party VPN peers within the organization.  The underlying API calls only support GET (Read) and PUT (Update) actions - not POST (Create) and DELETE (Delete) actions.  Because of the limitation with regard to preset policies discussed in the paragraph above, updating the third party VPN peers within an organization which has existing peers configured with the Meraki Dashboard preset policy of "Umbrella" may fail.

Note that the **group_active_active_tunnel** parameter is omitted for the secondary peer.  The group-level setting is controlled by the primary peer.  The underlying API does not return the **group_active_active_tunnel** for non-primary peers, causing an idempotency failure.

The SSE peer is applied to the network based on the value of the **tag** parameter which is set as **SSE**. A tag variable is configured in the **nw_setup** template within the **templates-network-related.nac.yaml** file. To add the VPN peers corresponding to Cisco Secure access to a given network, set the **tag** variable to **SSE** when you include the **nw_setup** template within the network.

If you are implementing Cisco Secure Access / SSE within your organization, the **hub_01_default_route** and/or **hub_02_default_route** parameters must be set for "false" within the **app_spoke** template for Unified Branch Phase 2.  If you are not implementing Cisco Secure Access within your organization, comment out the **third_party_vpn_peers** section.


## 🔍 VPN Firewall Rules Section

The VPN firewall rules section configures organization-wide outbound firewall rules. These rules apply to traffic leaving secure routers entering AutoVPN tunnels across all networks within the organization.  Note that due to current limitations, for Unified Branch Phase 2, the policy object and policy object group names are not used.  Instead, the IP addresses are hardcoded into the file.  However, the notes below explain the rules based on policy objects and policy object groups, as discussed in the Unified Branch CVD.

- The first two "Shared Services" rules allow traffic from the **Data Subnet**, **Voice Subnet**, **IoT Subnet**, and **PCI Subnet** to **Corp Shared Services**, and vice-versa.

- The "Data Access" rule denies traffic from the **Data Subnet** to the **Voice Subnet**, **IoT Subnet**, **Infra Subnet**, and **PCI Subnet**.

- The "IoT Access" rule denies traffic from the **IoT Subnet** to the **Data Subnet**, **Voice Subnet**, **Infra Subnet**, and **PCI Subnet**.

- The "Infra Access" rule denies traffic from the **Infra Subnet** to the **Data Subnet**, **Voice Subnet**, **IoT Subnet**, and **PCI Subnet**.

- The "Voice Access" rule denies traffic from the **Voice Subnet** to the **Data Subnet**, **IoT Subnet**, **Infra Subnet**, and **PCI Subnet**.

- The "PCI Access" rule denies traffic from the **PCI Subnet** to the **Data Subnet**, **Voice Subnet**, **IoT Subnet**, and **Infra Subnet**.

Note that the default rule allowing any source destination cidr and port to reach any destination cidr and port (with logging disabled) is enabled by default in the Meraki dashboard, and is therefore is not required to be included in the configuration. 